In this lecture we will try to translate some parts of our application but will only work with a couple
of simple examples and then those most interesting or complicated ones.
Well basically what we also need for this lecture is older translation files field with the text in
three languages.
Obviously I won't force you to write it down yourself.
There are files available for download under this lecture which will give you the message as BHP files
for free languages English Spanish and German with two entries inside and then the Jason files with
much more entries inside.
So before you continue you actually have to download them.
So let's go ahead and download them under this lecture now or grab them from GitHub the link is also
included.
Now if you have posed the video and downloaded the files that I asked you to download and now if you
will go to the home page.
This is what you will see.
So instead of the translated text you only see the keys for the translation entries like messages welcome
and messages plural here but not start with Jason.
It's different.
So last time we have changed the language the default language to be Spanish.
And using Jason we still see our translator text.
That's not the case with the keys because how that works is if you have something as a key then if the
if this is not found inside messages BHP file then well it will just simply output the key that wasn't
found.
So this makes no sense for us.
It's basically unusable.
But we've Jason.
That's why most of our translations actually are in Jason files if there won't be a translation specific
translation for our given language then it will just show the original key of that translation which
happens to be a text to be displayed anyway but just in the original language in English.
In this case.
So the worst thing that will happen here is that while you will have messages in English if there is
no Spanish translation and with keys well you get keys that are basically not understandable at all
to the users of your website.
OK.
So we have that we explain that.
Now let's go ahead and translate some parts of our application so maybe something simple for a start.
Let's open the layout blade BHP from resources views and will translate some of the things that are
displayed inside their menu.
So since those are actually in Jason what we can do is to double underscore and just echo them us as
the text that we have right now so this should be pretty simple so we do home contact log post
this menu option
and then we can also translate register
the logging button
and well if you are out antiquated we can also translate this one so log out bottom.
Now let's check it out.
So it should be in Spanish.
Now everything else is still in English so let's try to see how we can translate maybe this.
So the amount of comments that should be under blog posts so we remember that this might have even either
singular or plural form.
So the template would be index blade BHP from views posts.
Now there is an interesting example.
So let's take a look at the message just BHP the key comments.
So we actually did it the way that when there are no comments.
This would display our message on the not down no comments yet and then for one comment it will display
something like this and for two and more it will have the plural forum.
So comments.
Now we are using an if statement here and well now we don't have to.
So it's enough to that just called trans choice.
Now the key is messages comments.
And the second argument it doesn't have any more arguments is count and we'll be using this count also
to display how many comments there are.
So if you do not remember that you have to pass the actual number that will be matched against those
rules that you have specified here for the approval plural strings of translations.
And also this argument is available for you to display as a parameter using that column and the Count
Name.
So it is specifically under the name Khalid.
OK so the count of comments is post comments count.
So now we can remove this whole block save the changes and after refreshing you will see that in Spanish.
This is an example with one comment.
And let's also find the one without any comments.
So this is actually in Spanish so works perfectly.
Now the other plural example is how many people are currently reading our blog post.
So we have that under people that reading qui so this would be inside the show blade peach B for posts.
So this one so we display this inside the paragraph using the counter.
So now we can remove this text.
And also use trans choice.
Key is the messages.
People reading.
Let's make sure it's exactly that.
Yes people that reading and then the argument is counter.
So save the changes refresh and it is in Spanish to actually verify that you will need to open an incognito
window so the counter can actually work and you have that correctly so.
OK to Atlanta.
Well whatever that is to people so it works right now.
We covered enough examples already.
So I think it makes no point for me to be translating all of the possible strings here on the video.
So what we will do is we'll live it as it is right now.
Of course I will actually translate this.
So this will be available on the Github so you will just grab that on the next lecture with everything
inside the app translate it but if you wish and maybe that's a good exercise for you you can just do
it yourself so we can translate the whole of the application yourself or even add some missing translations
just play around with it.
If you consider that a good exercise for you.
Feel free to do that in a way if you don't.
Then on the next lecture Be sure to first grab the changes from the gate hub so you will have the whole
of the application translated.